<p></p><p>Hey, it’s 2020 now! Cue things about resolutions and intentions and bettering selves. This year I intend to drive for more clarity and intentionality with what I put out to the world and how I spend my time doing it.</p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p>At work, most of us try to optimize how we spend our working time using a tool called <a href="http://getclockwise.com">Clockwise</a>. It enables you to set preferences for how &amp; when you like to work, automatically scans everyone’s calendars for meetings, and automatically reschedules those meetings to give each participant as much “focus time” based on their own preferences. On the surface, it’s wonderful for creating meeting block periods without having to think about arranging my day, and some of my colleagues thrive in long periods of deep focus.</p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p>But I barely use the focus time as Clockwise probably intends. Being at home, even in a relatively bare spare room / office space, I’m constantly distracted by my personal life: <a href="http://aliciagreen.co">my wife</a>, our things, my <a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/B6Rw0qWJFJs/">new puppy</a>, my Nintendo Switch, my Apple Music library, Wikipedia, trees, cars driving by, a lightning strike of an idea, snacks.</p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p>For a while this frustrated me. I had thought working from home was the ultimate path to deep focus and productivity: no commute, no distractions by coworkers, no proverbial watercooler to seek out gossip (though I do enjoy my kitchen), no weird internal IT rules that prevent me from running my work computer the way I want. But I still find myself distracted, often by my own bullshit, which results in a very fits-and-starts style of work through much of the workday. Twenty minutes of deeply focused writing or backlog admin might be suddenly interrupted by my own desire to update <a href="https://music.apple.com/us/playlist/cooking-music/pl.u-BMWzVFrq3kg">my near-perfect playlist to cook to</a>. Alicia might suddenly be having an awful symptom flare-up and I now suddenly need to make lunch and find her medication. Having a puppy isn’t <em>quite</em> like having children, but it’s certainly tested my ability to context switch on a dime to avoid pee stains all over the house.</p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p><strong>I’ve very recently learned to accept this reality of working.</strong> It’s okay to get distracted by life. It’s okay to feel a little bored <a href="http://abstract.com">trying to improve how teams design products</a> after hammering away at a product requirements document for a bit. It’s okay to stop and cuddle with my wife or a dog because that provides me so much more joy and fulfillment than how much time I can put into staring at a laptop screen.</p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p>I can still be quite intentional even if I’m bouncing between the many things in my life in fits &amp; starts. An optimally-placed three hour block of time to write a song or a strategy document won’t solve for me being clear in what I’m looking to do and why; I can be comfortable working ten minutes here, ten minutes there, as long as I know why I’m doing it.</p><p></p><p></p><p></p>