<p>There’s something I keep having to remind myself: no matter how little time I have to put into art, I’m still an artist.&nbsp;</p><p>Still an artist, still making art. Music’s my medium of choice. Finding time to work on it is hard though, between wedding planning, an increasingly-demanding day job, other side projects - <strong>when can I play or write some music, dammit?</strong></p><p>Short, obvious answer: block my time like nobody’s business. That at least gets me time dedicated to working on the things I want to be working on. Once I’m there, how can I explore purely creative ideas and save them <strong>when my brain is full of all this other stuff</strong>? Equally short, equally obvious answer: technology helps me. But how?</p><p>I used to think that <a href="http://evernote.com">Evernote</a> should be my catch-all for organizing my stuff to stay focused: important notes, snippets, ideas, lyrics, receipts, anything possibly necessary to retrieve in the future. Tagging and shortcuts, stacks o’ notebooks, so much control. I tried storing my lyrics, song ideas, high level album cycle plans, even task lists and reminders in there - but, as <a href="http://lifehacker.com%0Ahttp://lifehacker.com/5666954/avoid-everything-buckets-aka-why-i-cant-get-into-apps-like-evernote">others have noted</a>, I ended up overwhelmed anytime I even attempted to find something in the depths of Evernote’s robust (to a fault) categorization system. I had access to too many things all the time - I had to remember which tags corresponded to what in my bizarre system of organization, not to mention the hours blown trying to establish the system in the first place.</p><p>Then I tried <a href="http://2doapp.com">2Do</a> for a while - I figured that if I could abstract my tasks out of their various places into a single, meticulously organized place, I could get to all the other pertinent content via links. 2Do’s various features are great - but again I felt overwhelmed, like I was spending more time organizing my ideas than actually executing on them.</p><p>I realized that these approaches contradicted my way of thinking through my various blurbs of information when I need them.&nbsp;</p><p>So I worked out a new system. Here’s what my core criteria was for this:</p><blockquote><p>-	I <strong>cannot</strong> put all my things in one place, due to the sheer overwhelming of having to parse through it all each time.</p><p>-	Centralize the blurbs in the app best for those blurbs. For instance, the app that gets me quickest to my notes is the best one for the most important or most frequently used notes.&nbsp;</p><p>-	More abstract ideas that require gestation and iteration don’t require as quick access, but I need the flexibility to adjust, merge, rearrange those notes as my ideas come to fruition.&nbsp;</p><p>-	Markdown is amazing, but some ideas may require sketching, images, etc. so I can’t limit myself to just text.</p><p>-	I need this system to play nice with day-job work <em>and</em> creative work.</p></blockquote><p>Turns out I was able to devise a system that works for me quite well - and it’s not far off from what <a href="https://brooksreview.net/2016/01/ulysses-all-the-things/">others have written about recently</a>. Here’s a shortlist of the apps I use in this system:</p><p>Reminders.app: my high-level starting point</p><p>Apple’s stock <strong>Reminders</strong> is what holds all my shit together. I tried using so many different task management apps and realized that the overcomplexity of these apps was what caused all my wasted time and lost focus in the first place. With iOS 9 and El Capitan, I can now save virtually anything to a Reminders list and have direct access to that thing, regardless of where it lives. I can even dump tasks straight into a list thanks to 3D Touch.&nbsp;</p><p><em>Disclaimer:</em> A big reason why I went with Reminders was due to iOS Exchange integration. We use Exchange at my work, whose Tasks feature I rely on to organize to-dos each day. Having access to them on my phone is invaluable, and while I loved <a href="http://2doapp.com">2Do</a> for my personal projects, I haven’t found a great iOS task manager that handles Exchange tasks.</p><p>I have a few key lists I rely on:</p><blockquote><p>-	I created an “Inbox” list that functions as my collector of tasks. I rely on Siri and share extensions to put everything into this list, and I sort out as needed later.</p><p>-	I have a list for each major focus area: <a href="http://wayfair.com">Wayfair</a> (via Exchange), <a href="http://sphmrs.com">Sophomores</a>, wedding planning, writing topics (for the blogs I contribute to), etc. I also have a generic “big goals” list for personal bucket-list items (starting a podcast, writing a book, etc.)&nbsp;</p><p>-	I also have a few lists for other things to reference: stuff to buy (Shopping), stuff to watch/listen (Media), stuff to take care of around the house (the Family list I share with <a href="http://laviecreative.co">Alicia</a>).</p><p>-	I rely on Smart Reminders to link to the given Note, Trello board, Ulysses sheet, or whatever else is pertinent to the given task. These were <a href="https://discussions.apple.com/thread/7261722?tstart=0">pretty problematic for the first few revisions of iOS 9</a>, but the 6th beta of iOS 9.3 seems to have fixed most of the problems I’ve had.</p><p>-	The default “Reminders” list itself is used for everything I need to do on a particular day, but I don’t care about until that day. Recurring tasks reside here, like laundry, taking out the trash or renewing my driver’s license.</p></blockquote><p>My one gripe with Reminders is a simple limitation on iOS: <strong>only manual sorting</strong>. The OS X Reminders app lets me sort easily by priority or due date, but I can only manually sort on iOS. If Apple adds a sorting feature to Reminders (like they’re doing with Notes), Reminders will finally be an app you might not scoff at.</p><p>Notes.app: for all quick note access &amp; entry</p><p>Apple’s surprisingly pretty (to me - sorry, <a href="https://twitter.com/volkward/status/607974689139474433">haters</a>) and nimble <strong>Notes</strong> is my go-to for quick essentials: important links, high-level project plans and lists, account numbers (thanks, password lock!), stuff like that. I also use it as a less technical Drafts clone, for quick note-taking (thanks 3D Touch!) for sharing to other apps when needed. The goal here is to get to important things quickly and start writing quickly.&nbsp;</p><p>I’ve started to find Notes really useful for quick lists at a lower level than Reminders - for example, production &amp; mix notes. I listen back to my demos constantly while on-the-go, and I’m constantly writing down ideas and feedback for them. I don’t want to create a single Reminders list for each song or album I’m working on - that feels too heavy - but I can create a note for the songs I’m working on, and then create a Smart Reminder about them so I don’t forget to review those notes next time I’m in the home studio.</p><p>Ulysses: for all creative / open-ended writing</p><p><strong><a href="http://ulyssesapp.com">Ulysses</a></strong> has become my ultimately creative scratchpad. Lyric ideas, blog post topics, sketches for a book I may write. The beauty of Ulysses is that it allows for endless organization, reorganization, merging, splitting and impeccable Markdown formatting of text.&nbsp;</p><p>In my workflow, this app (and how I use it) is especially important because <strong>it ONLY contains creative writing</strong>: blog drafts, lyrics, ideas for novel or album concepts, etc. I don’t get distracted by other life stuff when I have Ulysses open full-screen on my Mac or iPhone (like right now as I write this!), so I can actually focus on finishing that song or&nbsp;</p><p>Ulysses’ new iPhone app is totally invaluable, too, so I can do any of the above on the go. I didn’t at first value this since I typically need a keyboard for writing lots of text quickly - but now I can easily review my writing and rework snippets of it anywhere I like, without having to wait.</p><p>Trello: for all collaborative work</p><p><strong><a href="http://trello.com">Trello</a></strong> is everything collaborative. Now that Trello’s iOS app is just as solid as it’s beautiful web interface (and I can jump across either via Handoff) I can easily share ideas with my collaborators or comment on theirs. I rely on this for mixing/mastering my music with my friend James, planning trips with Alicia and building apps with some of my NYC friends.&nbsp;</p><p>Thanks to Smart Reminders, I can also reference any board or card on a Reminders list and quickly jump back to it later. For instance, if James sends me a new mix via Trello comment, I can pull it up via push notification and then immediately tell Siri to remind me about it next time I can give it a serious listen.</p><p>Pause: for focus-switching and relaxation</p><p><strong>Pause</strong> is one of those mindfulness apps, and I’m experimenting with it in my creative workflow. It’s allowing me to clear my head of the other life noise by just relaxing my motor functions before jumping into a recording session, new blog post or brain dump. I usually use it for a few seconds before jumping straight into a new context.</p><p>I used to think that over-organizing my life was necessary in order to achieve what I wanted to do creatively - but all I ended up with was tasks on tasks on tasks, multi-tier prioritization systems and even a literal Gantt chart at one point. All I needed was an easy way to see what was most important at any given time for a particular context, be able to act on it easily and without distraction, and discipline myself to switch contexts mindfully. This system seems to be working out well for me - let’s see how it works out over time.</p>