---
date: 2018-05-22
---

# Adventures in remote desktopping
<p>I love working on an iPad Pro. It’s the device that I find myself wanting to continually pick up, and the device on which I seem to get the most done — not always finished products, but the best and most fully defined ideas I can <em>usually</em> bring to reality. That goes for many aspects of my life: personal projects to cultivate my relationship with <a href="http://laviecreative.co/">my wife</a>, writing and producing the bulk of <a href="http://brandonlucasgreen.bandcamp.com/">songs</a>, writing and communicating and planning product ideas and larger initiatives for my job, writing this blog post.</p><p>My job is doing product management which, while a very complex and multi-faceted job, is essentially reading, writing and talking. <strong>Hey now — the iPad is amazing for that. </strong>I’ve got Slack, Outlook, the Google Suite of apps, my writing and task management apps of choice loaded up, and that makes up about 90% of the job.</p><p>The other 10%? Fairly technical stuff locked down to company-owned devices. I’m diagnosing issues with complex operational products, testing features, writing SQL queries, reading code — stuff that would be insane for a large public e-commerce company to leave open.To do <em>this</em> work, I am effectively locked into a Windows PC. At least it’s a massively souped-up quad core Windows 10 PC, but…it’s a PC. Stuck between the Google and Office ecosystems. Locked down by IT administrators. This PC is a laptop attached to an enormous dock connected to two Dell monitors in a corner of a big room, neither of which I use or maintain a consistent connection to said enormous dock. Because PC laptop keyboards seem to be all-encompassingly awful, I have a separate, wired external keyboard and (also wired) mouse which still hurt my hands to use, just slightly less so than the laptop keyboard.</p><p>All to do about 10% of my job. Possibly less on some days.</p><p>Meanwhile, the iPad just sits there, next to said collection of heavy, bulky metal objects connected by many thick cables, waiting eagerly for me to return to the other 90% of my job.I was recently thinking about why I bother using the PC at all. I don’t mean this to undervalue our IT department, but <strong>what does it mean to be a primary working machine in the first place?</strong> Can I just pretend that my primary work machine is my iPad Pro, and the PC is just a novelty device that I bring in as <em>the big guns</em>?</p><p>Or, could I rely on VNC/remote desktop access for the few things I need the PC for? For a long time, I honestly forgot this was a thing: you could access your desktop computer, in its entirety, from another device.</p><p>Turns out <strong>Microsoft Remote Desktop</strong> on iOS isn’t half bad at all — and since my work machine runs Windows 10, it’s all tablet friendly (thanks Surface) and my sensitive work stuff translates nicely to a 10.5” tablet. I can tap to execute a script, or open a Chrome bookmark, or run a POST request in Postman, or…open a 80MB Excel worksheet.</p><p>I have three main gripes with this approach, which keeps me occasionally reluctantly returning to my PC:</p><ul><li><p>iOS’s stock keyboard doesn’t seem to like unicode quotation marks — ‘ and ‘, but not `’`. I find myself copying-and-pasting quotation marks around SQL queries, which can become annoying.</p></li><li><p>Since Windows uses different conventions for key commands, and you’re accessing Windows via an iPad, sometimes basic key commands are hard to get right. The basics (Select All + Copy + Paste) work fine, but Windows-app-specific ones do not. I sometimes find myself needing to use a combination of hardware keyboard and Microsoft RD’s built-in software keyboard just to reopen a recently closed tab in Chrome-within-Windows.</p></li><li><p>Google Slides and Sheets (not Docs) are pretty terrible on iOS, so I sometimes need to use Remote Desktop for <em>that</em>. It’s sometimes actually more effective than the native app.</p></li></ul><h3>Temporary sanity</h3><p>I’ve drastically undervalued remote desktop access, and now have an even deeper appreciation for both my iPad and Microsoft’s investment in the iOS ecosystem. It is now <em>even</em> easier to do my job from anywhere, even if that job is locked into certain systems and processes for various reasons.\</p>