<p><strong>TLDR: I finally finished an album of music and I’m ready to share it with you.</strong> It drops for real next Friday (2.1) on Bandcamp, and the following Friday (2.8) everywhere else (Spotify, Apple Music, and wherever else people find music). <strong>For a sneak preview, check out the first track “Belong 2” <a href="http://sophomoresmusic.com/album/sleepwalker">here</a>.</strong></p><p>This one’s weird, but also exciting, for a bunch of reasons:</p><ol><li><p>About half of it was produced, and most of it was mixed &amp; mastered, on an iPad Pro. It was the first time I worked on a collection of songs with a ton of restrictions in my gear setup, mostly because I was living in Berlin on expat assignment when most of it came together. I’ll write more about the production details later.</p></li><li><p>As a result of my limited access to gear &amp; instruments, much of it is piano- and beat-driven, and quite sparse in places. This was an interesting change of pace for me, since much of my older music was quite dense to the point where my voice was (likely intentionally) drowned out in the mix behind all sorts of guitars and synths and stuff. Here, my vocals are pretty right up front.</p></li><li><p>The songs themselves are from all over the place. “Sun Loop” came from a looped guitar sample I recorded in 2009 (weirdly recorded at an apartment down the street from the place I finished the song in). “Old Lady Mary Esther” is a cover of an amazing song my friend Mary wrote, and I had the fortune of performing with her, back in Brooklyn in 2014. “Forget” is a mix of lyrics I wrote while playing in a little stoner rock band in 2012, with some piano riffs I wrote while in college, and this killer beat I found a few months ago. “Totem/Trinket” uses another piano riff from that same period, but is mostly inspired by the creativity I found in Berlin juxtaposed with the relentless consumerism I felt returning to the States. It’s amazing to me how random, disparate ideas can sometimes come together.</p></li><li><p>Much of this came out of me watching my wife struggle with autoimmune disease. That will become pretty apparent by track 2 or 3.</p></li></ol><p>I really hope folks enjoy this. It’s the most confident I’ve felt in my songwriting and self-production.</p><p></p><p></p><p></p>