<p>The other day I came across <a href="http://www.telescopeapp.org">Telescope</a>, a product that lets anyone launch their own community site, Product Hunt-style. Just when you think you’ve seen too many “Product Hunt for X” sites, someone gives you the ability to generate as many of them as humanly possible.</p><p>It’s not inherently a bad or stupid idea, I swear. But every time someone develops some sort of platform that “lets you make your very own X”, I get a little terrified at the implications that platform may have on society - or, more specifically, the silly ideas that the platform enables. If the “Uber for X” mentality gave us things like <a href="http://www.bottlestonightapp.com">this</a>, I can’t imagine what a well-marketed “Product Hunt for X” solution gives us.</p><p>Because I get bored during my commute sometimes, I came up with a few ideas for Telescope sites that I thought might be good1. Yay for rapid brainstorming!</p><blockquote><p>-	<strong>Anxiety Hunt</strong>: submit what’s making you anxious at any particular moment; others can upvote the things that they’re <em>also</em> anxious about. Let’s all be upfront about our insecurities, k? (Speaking of which, is Post Secret still a thing?)</p><p>-	<strong>Bitch Hunter Hunt</strong>: Upvote the best lines from the amazing, non-existent movie starring Will Ferrell, <em><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qLa_beHZfws">Bitch Hunter</a></em>.</p><p>-	<strong>Crack Overflow</strong>: Stack Overflow, but for people who periodically suffer from plumber’s crack. (What do you post on a site like that? I don’t know, I wear skinny jeans.)</p><p>-	<strong>Duck Duck Hunt Hunt</strong>: post and upvote screenshots and videos of your favorite moments from the classic game, Duck Hunt.</p><p>-	<strong>Ethan Hunt</strong>: Product Hunt for all things Mission: Impossible.&nbsp;</p><p>-	<strong>Fuck Hunt</strong>: Basically, Product Hunt for porn. V2: import the top voted porn images into a live web version of Duck Hunt!</p><p>-	<strong>Grunt Hunt</strong>: Inspired by Eugene Mirman’s <em>I’m Sorry, You’re Welcome</em>, this gem lets users upload and vote on the best interpretations of various sound effects performed by their own speaking voice.&nbsp;</p><p>-	<strong>Helen Hunt</strong>: Product Hunt for all people in the world named Helen. Vote which ones you think are the best! Except <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helen_Hunt">Helen Hunt</a>, of course.</p><p>-	<strong>I Hunt Myself</strong>: For the ultimate narcissist, this platform allows you to submit virtually anything you care about and upvote them based on your personal ranking of those things. The twist? You’re the only one who can access your list. And every upvote triggers a little “Me me me!” sound effect.</p><p>-	<strong>Jerk Hunt</strong>: Product Hunt for douchebags. You literally post about a shitty person and something shitty they did, and people agree with you. The worst people are highest voted. We’re terrible people, right?</p><p>-	<strong>Karma Hunt</strong>: Post something good you did for somebody, and people upvote the most charitable acts. Do you get any actual good karma from this? Probably not. It’s mostly self-serving.</p><p>-	<strong>Luck Hunt</strong>: Product Hunt, but if you're the Xth person to upvote something, you win money. THIS IS THE NEXT LEVEL OF FANTASY SPORTS, BABIES.</p><p>-	<strong>Meta Hunt</strong>: Product Hunt for “Product Hunt for X” sites. Product Hunt is sort of already this, but I figure let’s cut out the BS and make a site dedicated to this thing.</p><p>-	<strong>Nuck Hunt</strong>: Same as the aforementioned Fuck Hunt, but for Canadians.&nbsp;</p><p>-	<strong>Oregon Trail, Telescope Edition</strong>: This version of insanity takes the original beloved computer game, The Oregon Trail, and puts every possible scenario in a list. You have a limited number of upvotes and can use them toward rations, game, diseases - literally everything the game has to offer - and the game returns a likeliness of you surviving the Oregon Trail with those decisions. Basically, a way less fun version of the game.</p><p>-	<strong>Problem Hunt</strong>: Upvote actual problems around which people should build products to solve - they can be any problems, large or small. (Disclaimer: this one’s kind of a real idea, and it already existed once as Real Problem Hunt but was shut down - I think this deserves to come back at some point.)</p><p>-	<strong>Quote Pilot</strong>: You know all those sites with huge lists of inspirational quotes? Ever want to make your own soundbyte-y quote? Submit it here and people upvote the most moving ones. Because we need more inspirational quotes every day!</p><p>-	<strong>Reverse Hunt</strong>: Vote for the least cool things. The less votes, the better. Countercultures, unite.&nbsp;</p><p>-	<strong>Sidetracked: the Game</strong>: submit something that distracted you today - anything at all. Other people upvote the things also distracting them. The test: seeing how many of those things you can avoid clicking on. It’s totally a game!</p><p>-	<strong>Telescope Hunt:</strong> Product Hunt for all sites made with the Telescope platform. (No relation to Meta Hunt, of course…)</p><p>-	<strong>Uber Hunt:</strong> Product Hunt for Uber drivers. Or is it Uber for Product Hunt fans? THE WORLD MAY NEVER KNOW!</p><p>-	<strong>Viral Hunt</strong>: Product Hunt, but with auto-sharing upon every upvote. You thought you couldn't post any more content to your followers? Think again!</p><p>-	<strong>Witch Hunt:</strong> Post people you think are witches, and then others can upvote if they agree with you. Then we burn the highest-voted ones at the stake!&nbsp;</p><p>-	<strong>X for Product Hunt</strong>: Post and upvote features for Product Hunt. (This isn't actually that bad of an idea for a feature request tool...?)</p><p>-	<strong>Yerba Hunté</strong>: Upvote the best kinds of maté…?</p><p>-	<strong>Zoo Hunt</strong>: Zoo animals. Which ones are the best? I’m done with this list.</p></blockquote><p>––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––</p><p>	1	That is, ideas that will probably get made regardless of whether they’re actually good. In fact, most of these are completely ridiculous. But so are people who insist on making their own “hunt” sites for every possible niche they can think of. Yay products!</p>