<p>You’ve probably seen a ton of #content appearing on your various social media feeds lately offering inspirational stories, Life Hacks and general tips that might make you a better person. It might not, but at least it’s yet another new thing to try at some point in your miserable life-in-need-of-constant-stimulation-and-improvement.</p><p><strong>But that’s not what I’m here to talk about.</strong></p><p>You clicked on this post because I wrote a highly-targeted, urgent, actionable title that caught your eye. I got you with a trope. You idiot.</p><p>I, however, <strong>am an influencer.</strong> And I would like to influence you. Did you know that the following people employed tactics to lead successful lives?</p><blockquote><p>-	Steve Jobs</p><p>-	Mark Zuckerberg</p><p>-	Oprah Winfrey</p><p>-	Sheryl Sandberg</p><p>-	Richard Branson</p><p>-	Howard Schultz</p><p>-	Warren Buffett</p><p>-	George Soros</p><p>-	Barack Obama</p><p>-	Most of the other writers on Medium</p></blockquote><p>You probably did learn this by reading or hearing about it somewhere else. <strong>But I don’t care about that.</strong> I want you to think of me and this post next time you think about any of those famous, successful people. I want you to consume my #content and subscribe to my #newsletter and buy my endorsed #products, so I will inject myself into your life wherever and however I can. You will thank me for whatever Life Hack or tactic or change you made to your life, and consuming all that I spew is the first step.</p><p>So, to recap:</p><p>You are <strong>basically a massive failure</strong> until you follow all the points I lay out below.</p><p>1. Like and recommend this post and all my other Medium posts.</p><p>You might have read dozens, even hundreds of tips, posts, articles or even novels about what you can do to improve your life. But before recommending any of those, recommend my juicy content first.</p><p>2. Tell all your friends and followers to also like and recommend all my Medium posts.</p><p>Write your own content on Medium where you link to this article and generally reference my wise words and/or expertise on a field I <em>totally</em> have credibility writing about.</p><p><strong>But what about the other social networks, you might ask?</strong> Yeah, share this post there too. It’s just more content for your friends and followers to digest. But it’s content <strong>YOU</strong> endorsed.</p><p>3. Follow me on every possible social media network &amp; channel on which you can find me.</p><p>If you’re not on a network…well, <strong>get on it, dammit.</strong> I may or may not have profiles on the following sites:</p><blockquote><p>-	Facebook</p><p>-	Twitter</p><p>-	Instagram</p><p>-	LinkedIn</p><p>-	YouTube</p><p>-	Google+</p><p>-	Vine</p><p>-	Periscope</p><p>-	Foursquare</p><p>-	SoundCloud</p><p>-	Spotify</p><p>-	Dribble</p><p>-	Behance</p><p>-	Product Hunt</p><p>-	Medium</p><p>-	Github</p><p>-	various Slack channels</p><p>-	Etsy</p><p>-	Ello</p></blockquote><p>When in doubt, assume I have a profile there. Follow and watch me as I grow my following of minions!</p><p>4. Click on every paid advertisement you see that has my name and/or face on it.</p><p>I’m not just talking about the sponsored posts on BuzzFeed, Medium, etc. that I clearly paid for to get your attention; I’m also talking about Facebook ads. I even have an in at Forbes who hooked me up with advertising there - you know the 3 second ad you see every time you open up a Forbes article? You might start to see me there. Click on me there. I’ll make some money and burn my image into your brain some more.</p><p><strong>I also have some sponsored content on ESPN. I don’t even like sports.</strong></p><p>But I LOVE developing my brand shamelessly.</p><p>5. Subscribe to my newsletter (because of course I have one) and read it, every single time you receive it, to completion.</p><p>Because I know how much you love and value <strong>every single email</strong> in your fucking inbox. You might already be subscribed to the newsletters of various other writers, marketers and influencers - <strong>so what’s another?</strong></p><p>Also make sure to click every link in the email several times.</p><p>Me, me, me. This is all about me, and not at all about you or your inbox or your attention span.</p><p>6. Praise my success with me.</p><p>Once this post and my various social profiles reach a certain amount of attention, I will write about it. I will convey to the world how I did it, how you helped me, and what my next steps are going to be.&nbsp;</p><p>Then, you can read that and repeat the 6 steps I’ve laid out in this post.</p><p>Did you like what you just read? Have you not followed me yet on all my social media channels? If not, it is the single most important thing you can do as a living, breathing adult. Click on this link and this link and that link, and maybe this link too.&nbsp;</p><p>Content content content content content content content content content content content content content content content.</p><p><em>Special thanks to all the other digital marketers and social media people who made this satire possible! Sorry, I got frustrated this week with #content. This is not representative of ALL inspirational writing, just a li’l joke about that writing which is dishonest, contrived and/or pandering for the sake of marketability.</em></p><p><em>Also, sorry that I have to make that clear as to not inadvertently offend anyone.</em></p>